URN:CornellLabOfOrnithology:EBIRD:OBS128875260	2016-05-19 14:12:52	26242	species	Sedge Wren	Cistothorus platensis			1				United States	US	Nevada	US-NV	Esmeralda	US-NV-009		9			Dyer - White Mountain Ranch (aka Abandoned Ranch) (restricted access)	L866930	H	37.6836081	-118.0823690	2011-10-15		obsr209998	S9010803	Incidental	P20	EBIRD				3	0		0	1	1			First Nevada Record.  Photographed.  Seen 6-10 times between 1:45pm and 3:45pm.  I first heard an unfamiliar call note coming from a tall grassy/weedy flooded area at the northeast corner of the property.  The call note (rather strong chip note but still a little squeaky signifying a wren) was coming from a secretive bird moving around in the deep grass and vegetation.  The bird stopped calling and I began to wander off.  The bird called again so I returned to the wet area.  I pished and the bird moved closer.  I saw it very briefly as it moved through an opening in the grass.  I saw the streaked crown and upper back and immediately believed that I had a Sedge Wren.  When it moved through another opening I snapped two pictures.  I called Dennis and Rose back over to the area.  We heard the bird call but it took quite a bit of time to actually see the bird.  The bird flushed and it flew about 10 feet.  It's flight was rather weak and it crashed into the grass as much as landed.  The bird appeared rather dark and short tailed in flight so we began to think it was a Pacific Wren.  But the call note was not right.  We attempted to get the bird to respond to Winter Wren and Pacific Wren tapes to no avail.  At this point we became distracted by an Eastern Phoebe.  I eventually returned to the bird and attempted to record the call note on my camera.  The bird went silent and we all went back to our vehicles.  At this point we debated whether we leave the bird unidentified or give it another try.  I looked at the two bad photos I got and determined that no Winter/Pacific Wren would have those white dash marks on the back.  So I put my rubber boots on and we returned to the area.  We played the Sedge Wren tape and the bird immediately responded and moved closer.  The bird was at our feet and still out of view.  It was calling the single call note very emphatically.  It then flew out of the grass and perched on the nearby log and stick pile.  We instantly started taking pictures.  The bird was clearly a Sedge Wren.  The lightly colored streaked crown, weak buffy supercilium, streaked/dashed back pattern, very buffy orangy undertail coverts and flanks, buffy orange breast, white spotted flank and dark richly patterned wings. The bird then flew again into the grass.  Once again the flight appeared weak and rather slow.  This time in flight we could see the very obvious contrasting buffy/cinnamon rump.  Total observation time was probably roughly one minute combined, but the bird was clearly a Sedge Wren and the photos are diagnostic.  Documentation will be submitted to the NBRC.  The bird was still calling from the wet area when we left near dark.	
